=============
django-tagcon
=============

Django-Tagcon is a template tag constructor library for Django.  It supports a
range of features to make writing template tags easier:

- Syntax modeled on Django's friendly syntaxes for models and forms

- Standardized argument handling -- never write tag boilerplate again!

- Positional and optional arguments

- Required arguments and argument defaults

- Comma-separated sequence arguments (e.g., ``1, 2, 3``)

- Flag arguments (that take no value)

- Argument validation support (``clean`` methods similar to forms)

- Automatic tag naming based on the class name (with optional override)

- Automatic tag registration with the module's ``register`` Library

- Easy resolution of context variable arguments, including filters

- Support for yielding strings from the ``render`` method


Installation
============

Just drop ``tagcon.py`` somewhere on Python's module path.

Please note that this library is developed against Django's Subversion trunk,
as that's what The Onion's internal Django branch is based upon; it *should*
work in the latest formal release of Django, though, and the author considers
it a bug if it doesn't.


Example
=======

A simple example with a single optional argument::

    from django.contrib.auth.models import User
    from django.template import Library
    import tagcon

    register = Library()

    class UserListTag(tagcon.TemplateTag):
        limit = tagcon.IntegerArg(default=10)

        def render(self, context):
            self.resolve(context)
            yield "<ul>"
            for user in User.objects.all()[:self.args.limit]:
                yield "<li>%s</li>" % (user.username,)
            yield "</ul>"

And then, in a template (after loading the library)::

    {% user_list %}

or::

    {% user_list limit 20 %}


History
=======

The idea for a new, less painfully verbose and more consistent template tag
syntax for Django came up a few years ago at the Lawrence Journal-World, where
the author first implemented what he then called "newtags".  Newtags was a
modification of the template-handling code in LJW's internal Django branch; the
syntax was modeled somewhat after Django's model syntax, as this seemed like a
natural fit.  As this was the Dark Age around Django 0.91, the implementation
was eventually abandoned and became impossibly out of sync with upstream
Django.

A few years later the author found himself at The Onion, helping to expand and
manage a Django-based library that included an increasing number of template
tags.  He decided to again write a library for easier template tag construction
-- but this time based upon modern Django, and implemented as a separate
library.


To-Do
=====

Lots, including documentation and proper tests.  (We *are* using this code in
production at The Onion, though, for what that's worth.)  Unlike most other
tools that I've worked on over time and never released for want of polishing, I
figured it was better to just push it out first and polish later.

In particular, I'm not entirely comfortable with the underscore syntax to
denote positional arguments; I'm open to better ideas there.


Contact
=======

- Tom Tobin <korpios@korpios.com>
- "korpios" on GitHub
